Major, and then I'm making Colonel Pearl. Well,
I've been a colonel until 56, which is about 12
years. Of course, half the time I was out of the
service. When you come back in, they disregard
everything and just make out like it never
happened. Of course, to you, that's a long time. It
begins to... It's kind of devil. It affects your
ego. It kind of affects everything. You have to
start rationalizing and hope that something
comes of it. But you can't do anything about the
promotion system. And we're doing it on service.
And your reserve time didn't count as service. So
you just step into a group with a different
contemporary group. But then after it happens,
well, Everything else, speed it up. Sure. But it
was a long rest. We've sort of talked around
leadership for a while. Let's turn to leadership
now. Would you define leadership for me? No. Oh,
come on. Nope. I taught it, and I've learned it, but
I'll define it. I'll tell you. I don't think any one
person can define leadership. Did you teach it to
your ROTC? Yeah. What did you teach? Well, I'd say
that I taught
the control and management of individuals to
achieve an assigned mission.
That's about what it is. I think I have expressed a
number of different principles and beliefs to it.
Everybody's got to be handled differently if
you've got the time and the space to do it. You can't
try to handle, in a technological world and
technological business, 150 to 2,000 people all
the same way because they don't all react the same
way. They don't all think the same way. They're
skilled at different
abilities and professions. And you may not be able
to communicate with all of them at one time. And
you've got to realize it. You have to recognize
people as individuals and as human beings, and
you've got
to treat them that way. And that's the reason I go
back
and say it's the control and the management of
individuals to accomplish the mission. And boy,
that's a short statement, but it is broad and it's
very involved. What type of values do you later
have?
Oh, man. That's like a...
Scott is trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly,
kind, obedient, cheerful, good, great, clean,
and reverent. Now we've got 12 of them out of us. I
think first and foremost, he's got to have enough
self-confidence
to believe that he can do the job that he has been
given. with the assets that he had been given to do
the job with. Even if he knows that he's short, even
if he knows he's short in materials or short in
people or short in certain specialties or
specialists, he still has to have enough
self-confidence that we're going to get the job
done. He doesn't want to be sent in a hurry by a
subordinate, an old man not with it you can't hack
it he doesn't believe he can do it he doesn't
believe we can do it and it won't get done along with
that self-confidence there's got to be enough
honesty that he's honest with himself
and then i've got to qualify he's honest to the
degree that he can afford to be with his people
because sometimes he may have to have
to hide behind something to
make them believe that they can do something that
he doesn't really believe they can do. But he's got
to
be respectful. He's got to be respectful of
himself. He's got to be respectful of his
subordinates. We're talking I'm talking in a
position
that may differ from a guy that commands a squadron
of fighters or that commands a wing or something
like that. I'm talking again of leadership or
management as I have practiced it since 1943 of
being being a staff officer, that I'm responsible
for only a certain portion of what my boss
is responsible for. He's got a different role to
play. I know that. In what way do you think it's
different? Well, he's got the whole ball of wax.
Well, isn't he still a manager? Oh, very
definitely so. Sure. Would you explain the
difference? Well... So you feel there's
different types of leaders? Well, yeah. See, I'm
the guy that has to deal with the staff of... What
have I had? The staff of 8 to 120 people. You know?
Certainly... Get up to 120 people if you try to
communicate with all of them. It's a matter of
control. You still, when you go through and come
through the office and stop, pass the time of day
with him, check to see what he's doing, expose
yourself to him to where they know this is the boss
and this man, this is the greatest thing. The guy
that was here ahead of us never came back here. The
guy that was here ahead of you never came back here.
This is what I ran into, for instance, at the law
command. I inherited a deputy that the minute I
said, hey, I want to go back to the sweatshop. You
don't want to go back there. I said, I want to go back
to the sweatshop. And I want you to see that I go back
there three times a week.
You never went back there. I ain't the gentleman
ahead of me. My people are going to know who I am.
They're not going to be afraid to speak to me on the
street or as I walk through that sweatshop. And
that's back where all the design is going on. Sure.
The desks are sitting 12 feet apart, you know, and
so on. But the minute that started happening,
people realized that, hey, this guy cares.
Efficiency improved. We didn't have guys staying
home sick. You know... was there.
Now, this commander that has got, that we're
talking about, that's got me doing this, and me
doing this, and me doing that, and then you've got
these people out here, and each of them have got a
boss. He's got maybe eight, ten of us that are doing
things for him.
He's got a different thing. He's got a Certainly
he's got a responsibility to his boss, but his
management of this whole operation, I don't say
it's any simpler. If it was simpler, he could have
fewer stars than we did, but he doesn't have to deal
with 120 people or 30 people or 40 people or so. He
has got experts, or we shouldn't be where we are.
And when he calls us and says, When can you do it, and
when can you have it done, or what do we have to do?
And we tell him, he's got to rely on us to believe it.
And his
is a little more of
every one of us, believe it or not, are generals.
And when he sits up there, I don't care whether he's
got two or three stars, and he says, I want it done.
And we say, it'll be done. But when we say this down
or some civilian and say, I want it done, you may or
may not get that. Okay, we've already passed this
line. We're now in that general officer's court,
and when that boss or the general says, I've got to
have it done by so-and-so, can you do it? And you
say, yes, then you've made a commitment, and
you're going to have it done. But these people
below you haven't necessarily made that
commitment. You've got to earn that commitment.
You've got to earn that faith from them. He didn't
have to earn it from me. When I reported in, I
reported in as a dental officer. And he said, it's
there, you know, whether or not he knew me or not.
That's right.
Now, I say that it's a different type of management
in charge. When you're in that, you're back to that
well-disciplined group that the old man says,
okay, My boss has told me we've got to have it done by
the 28th. You're going to have the materials ready
for him by when? All right. It looks to me like we've
got it made. Now, y'all have committed to me. It's
going to be done. But we didn't go around within our
own staff and get a bunch of commitments before we
came back up and made our commitments to him. Well,
there's different types of leaders in the
military, it seems like. There's sort of
organizer-manager types, more like Eisenhower,
and then there's the Patton type, more command
leader or combat leader. Yeah.
Well, sure, there's got to be. And that's back
to... I think I've said it twice, this will be the
third time, that we've got to have the tacticians
and we've got to have the research development
type. These are different types of managers all
together. The tactician, he's got just as hard a
job as this guy over here that's working the books
and all the science and all the figures that can be
worked to try to come out with something to make
this guy a job. You know what I mean? Now, when you
were teaching at A&M, and when you had, let's say
that now as a general, they asked you to come back
and give a talk to an 18-year-old court kid who
wants to become a leader, and the topic was how to
become a leader, what would you tell him?
Well.
If I was, you know, if I hadn't talked to them and
they said, hey, how do you come here? Well, if
you're living the core experience and you are
exposing yourself to the maximum
of situations, attitudes,
then you're going to inherently absorb and put
into your computer what you need to respond to
whatever is put upon you
Remember I said the last place in the world that I
call a leader is the guy that's out there marching
close order command. And knowing now that you're
in fire control. Now when you went through boot
camp,
some of those DIs that probably were under, I know
that my son was under in the Marines, That's right,
but I don't necessarily call them the type of
leaders that we're looking for, to take people
into combat, to manage a critical phase of
operations. I'd have to know more about them than
just their ability to take foot strong.
So my advice to the young man, and I have been back to
A&M, and talk to a military
engineer. Just keep exposing yourself. Boy, get
in every situation that you can and learn all that
you can about life. And I'll tell you, this is not
original with me because I don't know whether you
have heard of this Spencer J. Buchanan that I spoke
to. I used to go to class, and this was after the war,
when I went back. And Spencer Jay would sit, and
though some of us were veterans, most of the class
would be cadets, because most of the veterans were
not going back to study engineering. I don't know
why. I think they went over to some of the other
schools. But I've been in class when Spencer Jay
just saw a mechanic book and folded it up and said,
we'll talk about that next time. What we're going
to talk about today life and how to get along.
He's a
retired Corps of Engineers Brigadier General.
One of the most outstanding men I've ever
known. He helped me in my world for my master's
degree.
Somebody asked me a question and I didn't know how
to answer it. It wasn't a technical question at
all. They said, what in the world is an Air Force
major doing at Texas A&M studying permafrost?
I sat there and I thought, how the hell am I going to
answer a question like
that? And he waited a few minutes and he said, the
state of Texas last year incurred a loss of a
million dollars. Cross damage alone for their
highways.
Permafrost is an allied phenomenon, worse than
this frost.
It underlays many of the bases and installations
of our armed forces. This officer has taken the
time to learn something scientifically about it.
I suggest that we hear his
review. That's it. Now, if we can, I said, well,
from then on, smooth sailing. But how are we going
to answer a question? What are you doing studying
permafrost at A&M? We don't have permafrost at
A&M. Certainly don't. Did you know General
Rudder? No, I can't see that. Let's talk a little
bit about the changes that have happened at A&M
since you were there, especially the changes in
the 1960s, which fundamentally altered the type
of institution. And I'd like to have your opinions
on some of them. First, the end of the mandatory
court.
Well, I guess I showed my ignorance when I say I
don't know what the mandatory court started with.
Because the law, from what I know about it, did not
make the military mandatory. And therefore, it
must have been made mandatory by either the state
or the school. But I don't think the law made
military mandatory. Not the federal law. That's
what I'm talking about, the federal law. But the
school regulations. But the point is that before
the early 1960s, everybody who went to A&M was
either a veteran or in the Corps. And that was
changed by by General Rutter, and now, of course,
you know, there's a couple thousand corpsmen and
there's about 30,000 so-called civilians. And I
was wondering, what's your opinion of that
change? What is your opinion
of that change? Well, I'm sure that... I think it's
certainly probably
given the opportunity of the college to go into the
university and the university to continue to
enlarge. Were it mandatory for the student who was
not a veteran belong to the core, I doubt that the
institution would be of its size and its stature as
important as that. Do you think that's a good, I
mean, do you think it's a good change that every,
that the students, that they don't have to be
former, or do
you think it's negative, or? Under the
The attitudes of our society today, I think it's
probably served the betterment of the
institution. Whether it's served the betterment
of the armed services, I would probably have to say
no. But the institution, I think, is probably the
betterment of the institution. Another one of the
major changes, of course, is allowing women at
A&M. What's your opinion of that? Should have been
there in 1936. I would rather have had one of your
roommates than one of the roommates I met. That's
the way you felt when it was changed? Well, my first
reaction was, gee, what's going to
happen? But I think it was inevitable. I happen to
be of a minority group, even in Kiwanis. Whenever
I'm a delegate to a national convention that I have
been to three of, and it's voted as to whether we
will permit women into Kiwanis, I'm always going
to vote yes. We never seem to do it. One of these days
we will. Why do you think you vote yes? I beg your
pardon? Why do you think that you vote yes? I don't
know why I vote yes. Because I think that we've got
professional women that want to be in our service
organization that are just as capable of doing
service to their community and to the people in
need in their community as the men are. That
doesn't say to me that Mrs. Jones' housewife is the
type that ought to be a member of Kiwanis just
because she's a woman. But if the CPA that has his
office, Pat Booker, is a member of Kiwanis, and
we've got a female lawyer down the street that
wants to be, and she's a practicing lawyer, and is
willing to give her time and efforts to service to
the community, I think that that's what we want.
That's what we need. But how can you get some of
these old diehards Now I turn right around and so
happens I'm on Master Basin and Shrine. That's
something entirely different. That is an
organization that is built strictly for men and it
is not necessarily built to serve the community.
And it's not based on professionalism. It's a
paternal organization.
But what about during, of course, during the time
that you were in the Air Force, there were a number
of... In the Air Force? When you were in the service
in the Air Force, there was a great increase in the
number of women into the Air Force, and still is
today. I was wondering about your opinions of
that. It doesn't bother me in the least, because
when I was the Director of Personnel in the 80th
General of the 302nd Transport Wing, I had a WAF
captain in Ferris and a number of WAFs, not WAFs,
WACs, because we were still armed. WAC captains
and a number of WACs were in my organization doing
just as good a job as the men. Well, what's your
opinion of drafting women today? Drafting women?
Yeah, this is a new... Boy, you've had to put that
question in since you started this research.
I don't know, I, Maudie and I, my wife and I have
talked about this one for a while and I haven't
really reached a position on
that as to whether they should be subjected to the
draft. I think there's a certain state or status
that can be maintained that permits one to
volunteer but does not necessarily require one at
that section to mandatorily serve.
One is not necessarily directive or inherent
upon the other. I just, I have not come to a real, I'm
leaning a little bit towards they ought not be
mandatory.
You haven't quite made up your mind on that. Of
course, another of the major changes at A&M in the
mid-1960s was, well, by 1968, was allowing blacks
to enter A&M. And it had been a segregated
institution for almost its first 100 years. And I
was wondering what you thought about allowing
blacks in. Long
overdue. Long overdue. say and this is not
qualifying my statement of saying long my feeling
towards black has certainly definitely
certainly results from long-term service i am
sure that and i uh gone to some other institution,
served my time during the war, gotten out and
stayed in Texas, maybe even South Texas, that I
would probably not have the strong feeling that I
have right now. That I think that we We're going to
do wrong if we don't make it even more open and if we
don't do something to, well, let's push that. If we
don't open it even more and encourage
more. And I'll even strengthen it by saying, The
year that I was president of my Kiwanis Club, which
was whatever date that said up there, there
were... 1977, 1978. Okay, there were four, there
were 14 clubs in our division. And I was the first
club, first president to ever bring blacks in.
club in this area. There are a lot of clubs in Texas,
Oklahoma that are predominantly black. There
were very few that had just one or two of them. And I
brought three blacks into our club during my year.
I brought a retired Chief Master Sergeant who is
still in our club and is Secretary of our club. I
brought a local postmaster from Universal City,
and I brought a major active duty Air Force from
Randolph. He was a professional individual who
wanted to be an Aquarian and had every right
to be an Aquarian. Boy, I was one, and you made me
one. Was there resistance? Not from my own club,
but from others. Are you sure you all know what
you're doing here? But they're still there. Was
there hard feelings? No. Just a little
uneasiness,
you might say. But how do they, are they still
there? I mean, are relations? Two of them are still
in the club. The postmaster has dropped out, but we
still have good relations with him. I don't know
whether you're familiar with them, but boy, some
of those guys, I talked to one over in Galveston
County a couple of weeks ago, and they have a harder
time than some of the military. They put them on
some of the dirty studies, and a lot of them don't
make as much as some of the carriers that work for
them. And they work longer hours. Yeah, it's
crazy.
So you think that it was long overdue to have blacks
at A&M. I was wondering, you were in the service in
the early 1950s. You were called back during Korea
when President Truman integrated, desegregated
the armed forces. And of course, the Air Force was
integrated at this time. And I was wondering about
your opinions of that. Long overdue. Well, we had
black troops at Mobile when we were forming these
air depot groups. Yeah, back in the war. That's
right. And all that we could do is either form
quartermaster truck companies and then keep them
all in that little truck company or platoon. That
wasn't an integrated option. But it just makes the
whole damn situation organization and
establishment. Just on paper and physically more
difficult, but then you ask the question, why
should it be to start with?
So you think then that by having qualified women
and qualified blacks in the service and
integrated positions, co-ed positions, it makes
the Air Force and the other services more
efficient? than to have segregated units? Is that
what I'm, is that what you meant to say? I mean.
Well, I would, yeah, let's say as efficient, or it
does not affect the efficiency. Okay, it does not
affect the efficiency. I don't say that it's an
improvement. It may or may not be. When
I was chief of the master planning branch, for
instance, there in Washington,
my number one secretary was his wife. She was
outstanding. Heather was one of the best damn
secretaries that I've ever met.
Now you said during these two days of
conversations that You're a very conservative
Republican, yet at the same time, on some social
issues like women and blacks, you don't seem very
conservative at all.
Or am I putting words in your mouth? No, no. How can
you call yourself a conservative Republican
then? I mean, doesn't it, do you see a problem
there? No, I don't.
No, I don't think so. Maybe it's because I put a
closer association to the socialists and the
liberals and consider them probably closer to
each other than to
the conservatives. So you're talking more
economically, then? No, that's right. I don't
believe in a lot of the social programs. And most of
the social programs, as far as I'm concerned, have
been sponsored and endorsed and kept alive by the
liberals once they're established. And I don't
know, maybe that's where I kind of draw the
dividing line to the definition. OK, back to A&M
then. Since the 1930s when you attended to, well,
the early 50s when you taught there and today, do
you think that it has changed in a positive way or a
negative way? Do you think it's a better
institution today than it was then? I think
it's definitely a better institution. Well, I
don't think you have to go back that far. Well,
when I got my master's,
minor in business. Right now, I couldn't even tell
you what school the business department was in
because
it wasn't a school of its own. You know, it was just
stuck away somewhere. I bet it, I bet when I was at
the time I was in school as an undergrad, 37 to 41, I
bet there weren't over
eight different history courses thrown
together, if that makes sense. And like I said
earlier and somewhere yesterday, it's strong
points were agricultural and some were
engineering, and yet at that, some of its
engineering wasn't very highly acceptable. But I
think that they've come a long, long way. And just
when the different schools are put in rank and
file, either, not within Texas, because I think
we'll always be A&M or Texas sitting on top, but
across the sound or across the nation, It's a
national competitive medicine. Oh, I certainly
should not neglect that, veterinary medicine,
because at one time, there were only two places in
Ohio State that picked it in, if anybody would
think about that. I'm sure there's more than that
now, but...
Since it has changed definitely from, even this
thing, the institution has changed from a college
to a university. It's certainly got to improve or
somebody's just using words and kidding
themselves. My older son would have given
anything in the world to go to A&M. Boy, he
researched and studied what all was available. He
just said, there is absolutely no way that I can go
to Texas A&M. and get what I want to know in
international
relations. It is not there. The faculty is not
there, and the courses are not there. And you've
got to have both. But times have changed.
Yesterday I had a wonderful luncheon last Friday
with the head of the MBA, dean of the MBA here in town
Friday. one of the leading Aggies, had a luncheon
for him out at North Country Club, just so that he
could become acquainted with a number of his
contemporaries. He had 40 guests, and I think 37
had on Aggie rings. Two had on Texas rings, and one
had on a West Point ring. Well we've covered a
number of topics and I was wondering, because
you're the expert on your life, I was wondering if
I've left anything out that you'd like to put on
tape. Is there anything else that, because I'm out
of questions. Yeah.
Oh, if it's a format, no.
I think that as we've gone through here, I have,
other than when we were going to lunch, we've
actually said nothing about some of the military
honors and things like that that have accrued to
the period. Well, let's talk about those. I think
we mentioned the the Silver Beaver and the Boy
Scout, which is probably the one outside of the
military, but from an organization.
The Distinguished Service Medal that was awarded
at the time of my retirement, that is the highest
award that can be given by any of the military
services in time of peace. The one next to it is the
Legion of Merit. I managed to pick that thing up, no
matter what I call it, three times. How did you get
to Distinguished Service? That was the working
department.
And I am listed in VUVU in America and VUVU in
Engineering. I know how I got into
engineering, but the
slightest idea is that I got new to the earth. Which
one of the medals do you value the most? Oh,
certainly the extended service medal. It's the
highest, and that's where you would, you know. In
fact, a lot of them are caught here, but it's not my
own country's medal. But I have a lot of fun. If I go
to France, I wear the little boutonniere that
signifies that he has been awarded the Croix de
Guerre. And of course,
the Frenchman will see it. I've enjoyed the
retirement, of course. You can call it
retirement, but I'm still waiting really
know what it means, I guess. We have a wonderful
situation here that the San Antonio area, I don't
know whether any of the others have told you about
it, but Each year, two different organizations
call all the reserve officers to a full day of
briefings and socializing. The morning is filled
with briefings. At lunch in the afternoon, it's
filled with golf. And it's either to Kelly Air
Force Base, which is the logistics command. You
learn all about, technically, all the aircraft
and all the files and stuff. And the other is Dr.
Randolph, where you learn all about the personnel
problems and the training of people and so on. And
they call any of the Air Force officers in the area
into these meetings, and they're pretty well
attended. There'll be 50 to 60 generals in each one
of them. It certainly helps us keep abreast of
what's going on. Though most that are in
attendance are no longer eligible for RICO, some
are. When you
pass the 60 line, you begin to go off. I'm sure they
can reach out and get you to have a war, but right now
there is no policy for RICO until beyond the age of
60.
I guess that does it. That's about it. Thank you
very much, gentlemen. I really appreciate this
opportunity to chat with you.